to me anger is a reaction to what
somebody else said to you
it creates an emotion
all right
the dark side turns your anger
into controlled rage now you're in
control
now
how long can you stay in control
that's the difference are you going to
burn out right away all of a sudden you
just let out all this rage or do you
know how to control it and place it in
the right places
not only to win the battle
but to win that war
and we literally have a war going on
every
single moment
it may not be out in here but there's a
war that goes on in here
all the time with ourselves
all the time
and you can't win that war with only
light you can't
[Music]
hey everybody welcome to another episode
of impact theory i am here today with
somebody who is truly iconic he is not a
trainer he is the trainer the one and
only tim grover
tim welcome to the show man tom it's an
honor to be back dude i'm so excited to
be sitting down with you again i am
obsessed with you your mindset your
books
and the new book winning the unforgiving
race
to greatness yes
i
was blown away i have the chills
literally just saying the title of your
book gave me chills uh it's fantastic i
think we have to define for people
because you give a pretty interesting
take on what winning is what is
winning
winning is not
about
the trophy and the accolades
it's about the grind
it's about the obstacles it's about the
challenges it's about the pain
that you endure along the way
for that 30 seconds
of being able to either
stand on the platform
be acknowledged by
individuals that are close to you
but when that happens
your mind has to immediately shift back
because now
you've felt and tasted something
that you could only get through winning
are you willing to do it again
over and over and over you've trained
some of the the
the greatest of the greats michael
jordan kobe bryant um
charles barkley dwyane wade i mean just
the the hall of fame is
chock-a-block as my wife would say with
people that you have trained
um
so you know something about winning you
know something about sustained winning
over time
why do you call it the unforgiving race
to greatness well it's interesting that
you said that i know about winning the
reason i know so much about winning is
because i've had to deal with so much
losing
that's interesting what do you mean by
that everybody wants to win but in order
to know how to win
you got to know how to lose because
you're going to lose more than you're
going to win
but every time you lose what do you gain
from it
so every time i've lost
people say you got to jump right back up
you know get back right on your feet
again and i i disagree with that
after you lose
or when you get knocked down
stay down there for a minute
understand why you lost
what were the reasons why are you down
here why did you lose
why did you get knocked down
because if you just jump right back up
you're gonna lose again
and again and you continue to lose the
same way so every time i lost
i stayed down for a second
minutes
hours
days
weeks
but when i stood up i was different
i was smarter
and when i lost again
i stayed down
i stood back up i was stronger
when i lost again
i stayed down
how did i stand up again i was more
confident
lost again
stood up
i was more resilient
now you start putting the pieces that
are necessary to win over and over and
over again
so if you lose and you jump right back
up and you haven't really changed
i mean really really changed from that
loss
you're never going to learn from it and
you're never going to really truly know
the unforgiving
race to greatness because that's the
that's part of the unforgiving part is
the losing part that part is unforgiving
i've heard you say it's so funny how
often you give me the chills i heard you
say
that
you know people will tell you hey you
just lost you need to look in the mirror
and you'll see the reason that you lost
you said that's not true
it's what you don't see in the mirror is
why you lost i have the chills again
what what does that mean
what is it what is it that people don't
see
it's what's really inside of them so
what they're seeing when they look in
the mirror they're just trying to see
what's on the surface but winning and
losing wants to know what's inside of
you it wants to know what makes you tick
it wants to know what your desires are
wants to know what your ego is it wants
to know what your limitations are it
wants to know what your mindset is it
wants to know everything about you
because
winning does not lie
when you look in the mirror
you can lie and see what's on the
surface you cannot lie what's going on
inside
and that's what people are not willing
to see the lies that are truly going on
inside of them that are not allowing
them to win over and over sometimes even
win once
you have to look winning requires you to
go so far deep inside yourself
it's way beyond the surface it's way
beyond internal it's going to a place
that
a lot of people haven't visited in a
long long time because they're afraid to
visit that person because when they
visit that person
they don't know who that person is
anymore
does this have to do with
not wanting to recognize your weaknesses
it's not wanting to not only recognize
your weaknesses it's not wanting to
acknowledge them not to work on them not
to face them and also what you have to
do to change them
people will point out your weaknesses
but there's a big difference between
your weaknesses and your flaws
your flaws are your gifts and people are
so busy
trying to deal with their flaws and
change their flaws when their flaws are
actually allows them to stay in that
race
can you give me some specifics on that
like give use yourself use mj kobe what
were the flaws that
they had that were actually unique gifs
well if anybody got a chance to watch
the last dance michael said i have a
competitive problem
i have a competition problem
right everything is a competition
well for most people
they'd be like that's his flaw he's
always got to complete he's always so
intense he's always wound up
but everybody tells him unwind
you can't tell individuals like yourself
like me
to unwind
that's when we're the most uncomfortable
when we decide to unwind is because we
want to unwind not because somebody else
tells us to unwind
so
when you look at that when people always
say oh listen
you're too focused you should relax
boy you work too much you're obsessed
with kobe it was always an obsession
you're obsessed
those are flaws
but those flaws allow you to win
over and over and over again initially
those may have been weaknesses but when
the individual recognized you know what
these really are my weaknesses
these are the things that allow me to be
different
it's what allows me to be unique because
winning wants you to be different
winning requires you to do different
things winning requires you to think in
a different way winning speaks its own
language winning has its own way of
recognizing you
it's not what this it's not the same so
winning requires you to be different
but being different
scares a lot of people
which
people think is a weakness but once you
recognize that difference is one of your
greatest flaws that you have the ability
to stand out
now you start to actually see what
winning is about
all right then talk to me about weakness
one of the things that i found so
extraordinary about your story and how
you guys started with michael jordan is
that you wrote to every player on the
chicago bulls except michael jordan
saying hey i can train you but only
michael reached back out like that to me
is such a signal
to what greatness is
why when he was already on the path to
being one of the greatest players in the
nba why do you think it was him that
reached out
well you just brought up the weakness
point he recognized he had a weakness
not a flaw he had a weakness
and he said i must
figure out how to make this weakness my
strength now what a lot of individuals
do is they'll take their weakness and
make it into their strengths but they
stop working on their strengths and they
don't advance all those things that's a
very key component there
recognize your weakness
recognize what you're not good at what
you're not talented at do you have the
ability
to raise that level and so and there's
some things you most people just don't a
lot of the weaknesses you can make you
can work on but there's some weaknesses
that are just your weaknesses now how do
you work with those things you find
individuals around you
who have
your weakness is their strength and now
they can carry
you or carry the team carry the staff
whatever you need in order to still get
that win
and we're so worried about
hiding our weaknesses and denying the
weaknesses
from ourselves and from other
individuals and a lot of people won't
identify because they get very emotional
when you talk about an individual's
weakness
and you tell them
it becomes a lot of emotion first time
they do is that's not my weakness
how dare you how dare you say that they
get they get very defensive they get
very very defensive and everybody
wants everyone says in any relationship
whether in business
personal
everybody wants the truth they'll say
plea be honest with me
well
your weakness
when you tell somebody's about their
weakness and you're being honest with
them
they think you're attacking them
all right
and the reason most people
feel like you're attacking them is
because the individual that's
identifying your weakness
has the same weakness as you do
and they don't deal with it but they
want you to deal with it because they're
hoping if you deal with it you can you
can help them
and the best way to turn a weakness into
a strength
is very simple
find individuals
who your weakness is their strength and
find out what they did or how you can
associate with that individual
one thing that i've always been blown
away by with your um strategy is that
it's very process driven it's it really
is like when i think about your
definition of winning the whole idea of
being relentless of getting a result no
matter what
which is precisely what i find so
intoxicating about you your ideas your
books
is you would count
so you're tasked with i need to help
michael jordan or kobe or whoever do
their thing better you would count steps
that they took whether they jump more
off their left leg or their right leg
after having sat in the stadium during
the game you would then go home and
watch the game again to do all this
counting so that you could then put a
regime together for the next day like
the thought of you doing this game after
game is crazy so that you could tailor
the next day's workout to really balance
them out so if they'd overemphasize the
left side we're going to train the right
side more but that's such a like that to
me when people really understand
how
obsessive you have to be to do that
night after night week after week month
after month like season after season
that that really defines what it takes
to be so good at what you do that you
get the results
talk to me about that idea of process
and just getting sort of that good at
what you do well to me you know everyone
talks about the process you know they
said you got to love the process you got
to love the process
i agree with that but i also kind of
disagree with that because to me
you have to do the process the process
is non-negotiable it's just you have to
do it
all right so if you have to do something
i don't have
uh highs about it or lows about it i
know it has to get done and if i let my
emotions get involved in it all right
it's not going to get done to its best
abilities
so if people say you got to love the
process and then something comes in the
process that you don't really love
because there's no way everybody loves
100 of any process if you look at this
beautiful setup that we have here that
we're looking at
to set all this up is a very tedious
process and how meticulous it has to be
and no nobody's here whistling and
saying oh this is wonderful to do let me
see how all the lights are
but you have to do it
you have to do it you take the emotions
out of it and you do it the process is a
non-negotiable thing
all right the end result
is not always there
that win isn't always there you can go
through the whole process and somebody
went through didn't be as meticulous as
you
and they may get that win
because winning has no loyalty to any of
us you know people that don't work as
hard they end up get they end up getting
that win people that aren't as qualified
for the job they end up getting that
they end up getting that win
do you stop the process no you continue
to get more maniacal with the process
over and over and over again
and
part of the process that's so important
i talk about this in the winning thing
is
there's so much information that's out
there when individuals start to do the
process
they get in this mind frame of
what to think what to think what to
think because somebody else is saying
this is how the process is supposed to
be done
these are the steps that you have to
take in each process
and they lose their ability on how to
think
no one told me to count michael's steps
no one told me to say hey
when he's work when he's working out
only do eight reps on this side and do
two reps on this side
there was no books out there
i mean that this was way before
fitbit and all that other stuff but i
needed to know in order to effectively
do the process correctly
if i'm going to go through it i might as
well do it the best of my ability and do
it right
so
i'm going to go through these steps
these are necessary in order for my
client and for myself
to know i'm going through the process
the way it should be going through the
way i wanted to go through
so i can get that end result
the process is non-negotiable i it's
just like
you have to do it i don't care what you
do
what you do
you know a lot of routines in the
morning that people go through it's a
process
it's a process to get you either closer
to winning
or farther
in the book you personify
winning that you'll make little comments
about you know oh you were describing a
workout one time and you were telling
the reader if it doesn't sound hard why
don't you go ahead and try it and i
think you'll hear winning chuckling over
you know in the background
at how painful this is and there were a
number in fact you just said winning
isn't loyal to any of us
and
this idea that there's a few ideas i
want to i want to tease apart because
they're what make this book so magical
so
there's the idea of winning
winning is is a an entity that you can
think of as personified that is fickle
that has no loyalty but yet is
extraordinarily powerful and when you
meet together and are able to pull out
the win there's there's nothing like it
right
that greatness is table stakes for
winning it is it is just
it has to be like there's no option
there's no way around it you can fight
it you can think it unfair you can do
whatever you want but that's what has to
happen for
for you to meet winning and for that
moment to you know to have that victory
and that idea of
being an unforgiving race that greatness
doesn't care that greatness isn't loyal
that greatness has these huge demands of
people and that to win there is an
element of
obsession that some people will say in
fact i'll ask the question this way
given how fickle a mistress winning is
is it mental illness to pursue it
i think it's mental illness not to
pursue it
go on
right
i i think that the the illness is
the what is an illness an illness
doesn't make you feel well it takes it
it's taking away your health it's taking
away your livelihood it's taking your
ability to see things
that are right there
all right
so
winning
not to pursue your win and people have
to understand this about winning
we win every single day
their wins out there all the
time our ability
to see those wins
to process those wins
to understand them
all right
that's what makes the mind sharp that's
what keeps you
focused that's what keeps you alive
the illness is
not to pursue
something
every day that gives you a feeling like
nothing
else
can't and this isn't this isn't about
financial security this isn't about uh
monetary success this isn't
this isn't about having shiny things
winning
is in so many different forms
raising your kids
being able to get your message out to
individuals
those are winning
being able
to
be a teacher
and never leave any student behind
those are wins
so the illness is
not
to be obsessed with those things
the illness is not to be
focused
the illness is not to want something
better for yourself the illness is not
to want something better for the
individuals around you the illness is
not
to be
the best person that you can be every
single day the illness is not to pursue
what's so special to you
there's this idea i think about um that
i call the physics of being human so
they're just certain things that are
true about the human mind so the human
mind will reward certain things and
punish other things
and
part of the reason that i think your
work is so important is you're one of
the few people that
seem to be truly aligned with the truth
of the human experience
and by that i mean to put these two
ideas together that i think the human
mind rewards everybody everybody without
exception you will be subconsciously
rewarded through neurochemistry for the
pursuit of improvement to get great to
take your potential and turn it to
actual usable skill set so to your point
it whether you're a teacher or whether
you're an athlete it doesn't matter
there's a subconscious routine running
in the human brain
that compels you through
reward and punishment to
uh take
potential and make it manifest into
something real that you can do something
with and if you fail to do that through
whatever argument you give yourself
uh you will be subconsciously punished
in neurochemistry you'll feel emptiness
you'll feel a lack of purpose a lack of
meaning and
um
when you talk about like hey there needs
to be something in your life where
you're pursuing that victory you're
pursuing the win you're going after it
with everything you have does that
does that line up with how you think
about it yes
the experience you get the feeling that
you get from winning
it you can't even describe it
one of the things i think that keeps
people from those things from being able
to get
that mindset from being able to get that
neurochemical
change in the brain and being able to
feel that
is confidence
and winning gives you
that confidence every time you get that
chemical change you get that hit
from every little win that you get
your level of confidence
goes up your level of confidence
continues it continues to rise it gives
you the ability to have more wins
and the crazy thing is
is
when you look at it
for most individuals especially for
myself
by
confidence is one of it's like it's like
the ultimate drug
it's like the ultimate drug
but you know who the dealer is
winning is the dealer
so if you keep getting those hits over
and over and over again that means
you're winning
as small as it may be you're winning
get your little step closer to whatever
you want it gets you a little step
closer to that mindset that we all have
the ability to have
that's the crazy part we all have this
isn't about
playing basketball
like michael jordan did like late brian
late great kobe bryant dwyane wade
this is about
having the mindset and being able to
think and process information and do
things and get that chemical hit
that we all have the ability of
every single day and we try tricks you
know so you know
well i shouldn't say tricks you know
these things do work but they don't work
as well
all right
i'm going to take a cold shower i'm
going to jump in the ice tub i'm going
to do that
everybody's looking for like something
they only have to do for a quick two
minutes you know if i go in there and i
stand under this cold water and i bear
oh man this is and they think yeah
that's
that might be a small victory
but what's the ultimate goal towards the
end of it are you just trying to
shortchange that two-minute
thing for something that's
you don't really want to do the whole
process to get
that hit that's naturally can be
converted over and over and over again
every time you win
the way when i was reading your book the
idea that seemed self-evident to me is
that
you can't opt out of playing the game so
life the human experience
and i suppose the only way to truly opt
out would be suicide so let's set that
aside um you can't opt out of it so
you're going to play and so now it's
just a question of if i'm right that the
human mind has a subconscious process
that's running that rewards you for
pursuing getting better at something and
punishes you for not having purpose not
pursuing anything
and you can't opt out of the game now
you're either going to feel good or bad
based on whether you pursue something
and when i introduce people to you
there's sort of two camps there's people
that
read you watch you listen you listen to
you see the things that you've done the
people that you've helped
and they are transformed by it and it
gives them the chills the way that it
gives me the chills and then there's
other people that are like i focus on
the dark side it's dark energy like oh
this is crazy
and
honestly there's a an ache in my heart
for people that
that discount that that
have not sort of looked in the mirror
and embraced the reality of the human
experience as far as i can tell which is
you will be subconsciously rewarded for
going after this leveraging every tool
you have including the dark side which
seems just so obviously real even if
it's just taking a cold shower it's what
you said every tool you have
and most people will not use every
single tool they have
why is that
because they're afraid they don't know
how to control it they don't want to
acknowledge it they're afraid of being
judged they want to stand out
they want to be different they want
women to acknowledge them
but they have so much doubt
of what greatness
and the unforgiving race actually
requires
to win over and over again we all have
fear
we all have fear but these individuals
have so much doubt
we were before
we started this you were talking about
oh i was watching um one of your past
interviews i was on tv and people you
were like they were like oh man you come
out on you come here and you're never
nervous you've been doing this for so
long and you have no fear and you're
like no every time i come out here i
don't care how how many shows have you
done now over the years hundreds
hundreds
there's always a fear
to sit in here but you never have any
doubt
right
never have any doubt of what the outcome
is going to be those individuals that
won't tap into everything that they have
and there's a so the dark side is
just because of the way i phrase it they
think it's this evil and it's this bad
thing and it's not
it's not think about the times
where
everything was going wrong
nothing was going right
what kept you going
what kept you going when there was no
friends around there was no family you
were in that place
what
kept you going
all right that was your dark energy that
was your dark side
and
think about this
when does a new day start
at midnight
is it light or dark out
dark
so if you if a new day
starts in the dark
why
why are you afraid to have use your dark
side for your new beginnings
whoa
it's not an evil thing it's an evil
thing if you don't recognize it
it's an evil thing if you allow it to
become destructive if it's an it's an
evil thing if you use it for excuses
but if you harness it
it takes you to places
that you
you couldn't even imagine
and every single winner in all folks in
all forms of life
they may not talk about it but they've
all tapped into that energy
the light energy the dark energy
the subconscious energy the conscious
energy they use
all they use everything
they use everything
and in order to have winning winning
requires you to do
and use everything because
you don't know one day if when
not even a day
you don't know from minute to minute
if winning is going to wear a halo
or it's going to meet you with fangs
and if you can't deal with the halo you
definitely can't deal with the fangs you
can't deal with the fangs you can't deal
with the halo
and they may require different energy
they may require different energy
[Music]
yeah the um
the thing that i'm obsessed with is
getting people to understand that
nature
has given you tools i won't say whether
they're good or bad tools but rage is a
tool
anger exists for a reason aggression
exists for a reason and
there it feels different and so i
understand how the word sort of light
energy dark energy come to be um star
wars has always been such a cool take on
sure that where there's there's a
seduction to the dark side and there's
there are moments of time where that's
going to be the thing that you need in
that moment to get you through
i try to spend 80 of my time in the
light and think of the beautiful things
that i'm trying to create in the world
and that keeps me going until it doesn't
and then when it's dark
and i'm scared and i'm broken and just
exhausted
in those moments
it's thinking about the people that
actively want me to fail it's shifting
over into an aggressive energy it's
shifting over into rage and if you think
about how you would react if somebody
attacked the ones that you love it
wouldn't be with diplomacy it would be
with ferocity yes and to me it's like
acknowledging that millions of years of
evolution have led to the moment where
in a moment of crisis
what presents itself to you
is aggression is dominance is rage is
attack
and
if in those moments people view that as
a thing to not be touched a tool not to
be used
uh that to me is a mistake it's a huge
mistake people say you gotta attack your
goals
all right
but you gotta
you gotta control your feelings
they label us with all these different
things that
when it's to get what we want
it's always got to be in a positive
light a positive light a positive light
but when you have individuals
like you said that trying to attack you
that attack you personally that attack
your
work ethic
that attack your success
that are trying to take away
everything that you've worked so hard to
get to get
are you only going to use the light or
are you going to use your aggression are
you going to use your controlled rage
are you going to use those things to
protect you
and if you haven't
acknowledged your dark side and you
haven't tapped into it and
realize what it is and acknowledge it
just like winning has no loyalty and
winning doesn't know your name
it's gonna say hey
i don't know who you are
to me anger is what
is a reaction to what somebody else said
to you
it creates an emotion
all right
the dark side turns your anger into
controlled rage now you're in control
you're in control
now
how long can you stay in control
that's the difference are you going to
burn out right away all of a sudden you
just let out all this rage or do you
know how to control it and place it in
the right places
not only to win the battle
but to win that war
and we literally have a war going on
every
single moment
it may not be out in here but there's a
war that goes on in here
all the time with ourselves
all the time
and you can't win that war with only
light you can't
and i agree so ferociously that it's one
of those things whenever i talk about it
people get super weird there is a
high level of discomfort that people
have around that idea
um but i think that it's so powerful um
that failing to use it is is sort of an
acknowledgement of of sort of lowering
what is possible yes yes and the people
that get uncomfortable
usually have the darkest sides they just
don't they just they've never had
they feel like they're getting caught
they're like they're trying to hide it
they're like and all of a sudden they're
like whoa
somebody just he's just talking it
i didn't know anybody else was like this
there's a lot of people out there like
this and we only people only get
acknowledged
for it for all the destructive behavior
that happens they don't really get
acknowledged for all the all the good
that that's that happens with it and the
people that have the ability to tap into
that and get to
not only
help themselves but help everybody
around you so to me it's really a
question of meaning and purpose when i
think about so lisa and i obviously
paused for a very brief second and said
okay we've now had the kind of financial
success we said we'd never work again
on something that we didn't love if we
hit this sort of dollar amount
and
luckily before that i had realized that
this is really just a game of
neurochemistry it really it like life
full stop is just how you feel about
yourself and your life when you're by
yourself
and so i knew i needed to engage in
something that mattered and this is why
talking to you is always so powerful to
me
is
you've got this setup where meaning and
purpose matters
without it there will be
not not just uh something missing in
your life it will be a sucking wound of
a void like
you with everything you have you must
address it and if you look at the opioid
opioid epidemic
pandemic
basically that is
what happens when people have no meaning
no purpose in their life they fill it
with something like neuro neural
cocktail right so
um i knew that i needed to re-engage but
when i think about
engaging in a way that gives me the
neurochemical cocktail that i want it
really is going really really hard for
something
and i can acknowledge that that does not
seem completely universal some people
don't have sort of the the level that i
have to take it to and like i'm obsessed
and
but it is if people look at me and
they're sad right at how hard i work and
how much i've given up for what i love
i will flip that and say the reason they
think that is because they don't know
what it feels like to pursue something
that hard and even though i know winning
doesn't know my name doesn't care about
me there's no loyalty
the pursuit
of real glory like just the pursuit of
it is in and of itself an intoxicant and
is
thoroughly joyful most people don't want
to even get in the race
because what you just explained to them
they're afraid of it
they're afraid of success they're afraid
of how good that's going to feel because
it's something unique to them it's
something different something they want
it's something they want to pursue
but in order to get in this unforgiving
race
you're going to have to leave a lot of
things behind
you have to leave a lot of you have to
leave a lot of people behind you're
going to have to leave a lot of feelings
behind you're going to leave a lot of
emotions behind
right so
the best way to describe those
individuals
is
and this is why
you have a hard time i won't say
relating to them but just um
understanding their thinking
because we relate to people in different
ways all the time is those individuals
their feelings
are stronger than their mind
and
you're
and for us
our minds are stronger than our feelings
so
you think about the success that you had
previously
right
your feelings could have said
you don't need to get out of bed anymore
you literally if you chose every single
day
you're like
your feelings could have said
why do you have to work more
stay in bed
all right
your mind got you out of bed every
single day because your mind was
stronger than your feelings because you
knew what your real purpose was where
your real win was even though you won
previously
that may have not been
your
actual
pursuit of the win that you wanted you
you won that one and you're like what's
next there's always a next so your mind
was stronger than your feelings your
mind
allowed you to make that decision
feelings
make people overthink over and over
should i do this should i not get in the
race
it's going to be too hard so they
already talk themselves out there talk
themselves out of it
most individuals your mind
will make a decision
say we're going to we're going to do
this
your feelings always make suggestions
you're always they're always giving a
suggestion they're always kind of
analyzing things they're trying to see
is trying to see
what what's happening what what's going
to go on
all right
when you fail
your feelings
give you excuses
your mind makes you more resilient
you've given up a lot personally to play
this game
to strive for winning you told a story
in the book that i hadn't heard before
which really
hit me
which is uh you were packing to go yes
and your daughter walked in
tell us that story this is this is tim
grover in a nutshell to me the
unflinching here's the truth of it don't
have to play if you don't want to but
here's what it costs if you want to play
and
yeah
so my work
when i was working with my professional
athletes it required me to do a lot of
traveling a lot of leaving at short
notice
and this story gets me every time
so when people say
it didn't hurt
it still hurts
i was packing for a trip
my daughter walks into the room
she says daddy
why do you travel so much
i said sweetheart this is i provide for
the family this is how i take care of
you and mom
this is how i put food on the table
she looks at me
says daddy if i eat less
will you stay home more
now people would think
[Applause]
[Music]
in a fairy tale
or most people were that i unpacked my
suitcase
i'm not going to take this trip
and let's go grab some ice cream or
let's go out
i kept packing
why
i had to set an example for her early
of what it meant to win
and what you have to leave behind
sometimes
in order to pursue
what's unique to you
and
i wanted her to understand
that
this is who i am
i can't be anybody else
i always want you to see the real dad
the real person
and i want to set an example for you
and
i was fortunate enough that
those sacrifices
that i did make early
i had a conversation with her later on
to tell her why i did all those things
in the middle of the conversation she
stopped me
she goes i get it
i understand
she saw the results
she saw how it brought us closer
together
she understood
my dedication
to my craft
and what it took to excel
and what it took
to be different
and what it took to stand by unpopular
decisions of others
knowing that
every successful person that i've met
every successful person that i know
had to make those decisions
over and over
again that affect
other individuals that are so close and
so dear to them
what do you say to people that hear that
story and think
oh tim you were so close you could have
had the fairy tale moment
all you had to do was
unpack take her out for ice cream what
is it that they don't understand
you ever watch a fairy tale yes
all right
there's a lot of unforgiving
dark places bad decisions that go on
bad moments in a fairy tale
and it doesn't always end
the way everybody wants it to end
my ending of a fairy tale is different
than somebody else's
it's my story
i have the ability to change it
i have the ability to decide who's going
to star in it whether i'm going to be
the main figure or at times i'm gonna
let somebody else
don't give that power to somebody else
you have too many individuals out there
that are not writing their own story
they're letting other people
write
those stories for them
winning wants you to write your own
story
because only you can tell your story the
way
winning is going to understand it
the way your true self is going to be
acknowledge it to everybody else and say
listen
i may not agree with everything that
you've done and i don't expect people to
do there's not a single successful
person that i know where everybody's
going to agree with 100 of their
decisions
but you have to respect that individual
for doing things
that they wanted to do
how they wanted to do it
and
their ability to win over and over again
if you had 60 seconds
to tell the generation coming up now
who want to be great
what they should do to make that real
what would you say
if i had 60 seconds i would tell them
that
stop looking for steps
stop looking for things that say
five steps to winning ten steps to
greatness you know eight steps to
success
those steps are infinite
and they're constantly changing
and just because you can't see them
doesn't mean they're not there
find your own path
to winning
because as the late great kobe bryant
said
winning is everything
the way it makes you feel
the way it makes your family feel
the way you feel when your children win
the way you feel when your significant
others went
the way you feel
when you've touched other lives and they
win
those steps are infinite but you gotta
trust yourself
that they're there
and sometimes you gotta
run up those stairs sometimes you gotta
crawl up those stairs
and sometimes you get all the way to the
top
you got to start all over again
such as the nature of winning yes it is
my man thank you so much for coming on
where can people connect with you
my website is timgrover.com social media
handle is at tim grover
nice and easy there it is
guys i'm telling you this is
i would call him a legend but he's not a
legend he's an icon this man knows how
to think read the book winning it is
extraordinary um i have set off camera
and i will say now on camera winning
is like another number one hit from the
same album that relentless came from if
you like that one winning is going to
blow your mind is absolutely phenomenal
his advice will change your life if you
let it and i hope each and every one of
you will pursue winning in your own way
and speaking of things that will help
you win if you haven't already be sure
to subscribe and until next time my
friends be legendary take care